1 But the souls of the righteous are in the hand of God, and there shall no torment touch them.
2 In the sight of the unwise they seemed to die: and their departure is taken for misery,
3 And their going from us to be utter destruction: but they are in peace.
4 For though they be punished in the sight of men, yet is their hope full of immortality.
5 And having been a little chastised, they shall be greatly rewarded: for God proved them, and found them worthy for himself.
6 As gold in the furnace hath he tried them, and received them as a burnt offering.
7 And in the time of their visitation they shall shine, and run to and fro like sparks among the stubble.
8 They shall judge the nations, and have dominion over the people, and their Lord shall reign for ever.
9 They that put their trust in him shall understand the truth: and such as be faithful in love shall abide with him: for grace and mercy is to his saints, and he hath care for his elect.
10 But the ungodly shall be punished according to their own imaginations, which have neglected the righteous, and forsaken the Lord.
11 For whoso despiseth wisdom and nurture, he is miserable, and their hope is vain, their labours unfruitful, and their works unprofitable:
12 Their wives are foolish, and their children wicked:
13 Their offspring is cursed. Wherefore blessed is the barren that is undefiled, which hath not known the sinful bed: she shall have fruit in the visitation of souls.
14 And blessed is the eunuch, which with his hands hath wrought no iniquity, nor imagined wicked things against God: for unto him shall be given the special gift of faith, and an inheritance in the temple of the Lord more acceptable to his mind.
15 For glorious is the fruit of good labours: and the root of wisdom shall never fall away.
16 As for the children of adulterers, they shall not come to their perfection, and the seed of an unrighteous bed shall be rooted out.
17 For though they live long, yet shall they be nothing regarded: and their last age shall be without honour.
18 Or, if they die quickly, they have no hope, neither comfort in the day of trial.
19 For horrible is the end of the unrighteous generation.
