1 Then Tobit called his son Tobias, and said unto him, My son, see that the man have his wages, which went with thee, and thou must give him more.
2 And Tobias said unto him, O father, it is no harm to me to give him half of those things which I have brought:
3 For he hath brought me again to thee in safety, and made whole my wife, and brought me the money, and likewise healed thee.
4 Then the old man said, It is due unto him.
5 So he called the angel, and he said unto him, Take half of all that ye have brought and go away in safety.
6 Then he took them both apart, and said unto them, Bless God, praise him, and magnify him, and praise him for the things which he hath done unto you in the sight of all that live. It is good to praise God, and exalt his name, and honourably to shew forth the works of God; therefore be not slack to praise him.
7 It is good to keep close the secret of a king, but it is honourable to reveal the works of God. Do that which is good, and no evil shall touch you.
8 Prayer is good with fasting and alms and righteousness. A little with righteousness is better than much with unrighteousness. It is better to give alms than to lay up gold:
9 For alms doth deliver from death, and shall purge away all sin. Those that exercise alms and righteousness shall be filled with life:
10 But they that sin are enemies to their own life.
11 Surely I will keep close nothing from you. For I said, It was good to keep close the secret of a king, but that it was honourable to reveal the works of God.
12 Now therefore, when thou didst pray, and Sara thy daughter in law, I did bring the remembrance of your prayers before the Holy One: and when thou didst bury the dead, I was with thee likewise.
13 And when thou didst not delay to rise up, and leave thy dinner, to go and cover the dead, thy good deed was not hid from me: but I was with thee.
14 And now God hath sent me to heal thee and Sara thy daughter in law.
15 I am Raphael, one of the seven holy angels, which present the prayers of the saints, and which go in and out before the glory of the Holy One.
16 Then they were both troubled, and fell upon their faces: for they feared.
17 But he said unto them, Fear not, for it shall go well with you; praise God therefore.
18 For not of any favour of mine, but by the will of our God I came; wherefore praise him for ever.
19 All these days I did appear unto you; but I did neither eat nor drink, but ye did see a vision.
20 Now therefore give God thanks: for I go up to him that sent me; but write all things which are done in a book.
21 And when they arose, they saw him no more.
22 Then they confessed the great and wonderful works of God, and how the angel of the Lord had appeared unto them.
