1 Tobias then answered and said, Father, I will do all things which thou hast commanded me:
2 But how can I receive the money, seeing I know him not?
3 Then he gave him the handwriting, and said unto him, Seek thee a man which may go with thee, whiles I yet live, and I will give him wages: and go and receive the money.
4 Therefore when he went to seek a man, he found Raphael that was an angel.
5 But he knew not; and he said unto him, Canst thou go with me to Rages? and knowest thou those places well?
6 To whom the angel said, I will go with thee, and I know the way well: for I have lodged with our brother Gabael.
7 Then Tobias said unto him, Tarry for me, till I tell my father.
8 Then he said unto him, Go and tarry not. So he went in and said to his father, Behold, I have found one which will go with me. Then he said, Call him unto me, that I may know of what tribe he is, and whether he be a trusty man to go with thee.
9 So he called him, and he came in, and they saluted one another.
10 Then Tobit said unto him, Brother, shew me of what tribe and family thou art.
11 To whom he said, Dost thou seek for a tribe or family, or an hired man to go with thy son? Then Tobit said unto him, I would know, brother, thy kindred and name.
12 Then he said, I am Azarias, the son of Ananias the great, and of thy brethren.
13 Then Tobit said, Thou art welcome, brother; be not now angry with me, because I have enquired to know thy tribe and thy family; for thou art my brother, of an honest and good stock: for I know Ananias and Jonathas, sons of that great Samaias, as we went together to Jerusalem to worship, and offered the firstborn, and the tenths of the fruits; and they were not seduced with the error of our brethren: my brother, thou art of a good stock.
14 But tell me, what wages shall I give thee? wilt thou a drachm a day, and things necessary, as to mine own son?
15 Yea, moreover, if ye return safe, I will add something to thy wages.
16 So they were well pleased. Then said he to Tobias, Prepare thyself for the journey, and God send you a good journey. And when his son had prepared all things far the journey, his father said, Go thou with this man, and God, which dwelleth in heaven, prosper your journey, and the angel of God keep you company. So they went forth both, and the young man's dog with them.
17 But Anna his mother wept, and said to Tobit, Why hast thou sent away our son? is he not the staff of our hand, in going in and out before us?
18 Be not greedy to add money to money: but let it be as refuse in respect of our child.
19 For that which the Lord hath given us to live with doth suffice us.
20 Then said Tobit to her, Take no care, my sister; he shall return in safety, and thine eyes shall see him.
21 For the good angel will keep him company, and his journey shall be prosperous, and he shall return safe.
22 Then she made an end of weeping.
